---
layout: default
title: "Lab 0: Using ChatGPT 3.5"
---

ChatGPT
=======

## Objective

The student will ask ChatGPT questions relevant to course content, and analyze the answers for correctness and creativity.  The student will then use ChatGPT to assist with creating a personal HTML resume.

## Resources

AI Bill of Rights (2022): Available at [https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/ai-bill-of-rights/](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/ai-bill-of-rights/)

## Your Task

1. Download, read, and memorize the entire Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights. All 70+ pages of it.  Or, just skim through it. Know that this document exists, what it is generally about, and how it could shape the field of programming.
2. Create a **FREE** account for [ChatGPT 3.5](https://chat.openai.com). You will then be able to inititiate conversations, and ask ChatGPT questions and analyze the responses.
3. Start a new conversation with ChatGPT.  Ask ChatGPT a series of generic questions. Keep the questions lighthearted and easy to understand. The responses should be easy to analyze for correctness and creativity. This is just to get used to the ChatGPT system, and does not need to be submitted. 
4. The course syllabus lists the topics to be covered in class.  Decide on three relevant topics to cover in a conversation with ChatGPT.  The topics should be directly relevant to the course in question.  See below for a list of example questions. 
5. Have three separate conversations with ChatGPT addressing the topics in some detail. Ask multiple follow-up questions to add clarity or summarize details. The answers generated may not be what was expected. The overall goal is to test the limits of what relevant course topics can be generated by ChatGPT.
6. Copy and paste the relevant conversations into a word processor, e.g. Google Doc, for editing.
7. Edit the responses, and eliminate any irrelevant material. It may be necessary to abbreviate long responses, as they could be quite large. Test ChatGPT of both conceptual knowledge and the ability to write programs.
8. Within the document, take notes on the responses given. Use the highlighter tool to identify notes as separate from the conversation.  Comment on the correctness and creativity of the ChatGPT responses.
9. Upload the conversation document in PDF form to Lab00 in Marmoset - see the instructions at the end of this page.

### Analyze for Correctness

Part of the requirement for this lab is to analyze the responses given for correctness. Indicate whether the responses are correct, nearly correct, or significantly incorrect. Come up with ways to detect the correctness, through fact-checking, calculations, or just in agreeance with personal knowledge.

### Analyze for Creativity

Creativity among AI is a controversial topic. Does AI have actual creativity (like a human), or is it just retelling what it has already encountered? Provide conjecture on where the AI got the material. One could even ask ChatGPT itself where it got the information.

### Example Questions - Generic

-   Write a short story about a bowling ball with a mind of its own.
-   What is the best vegan restaurant within ten miles of York College campus?
-   Who wins: The Borg or a Sith Lord?
-   How many times does "spam" appear in the Monty Python Spam sketch?
-   I want to get into superhero movies. What movies of the last twenty or so years are the most definitive for the genre?
-   I suffer from screen addiction. What are some ways to treat this condition?
-   What courses should I take after having completed CS101 and CS201 at York College of PA for YCP's computer engineering major?
-   York Peppermint Patties were named after York, PA, Hanover Pretzels were originally made in Hanover, PA.  And naturally, the Hershey chocolate company is based in Hershey, PA. Are there any other products named after cities in Pennsylvania?
-   What are the words to the Witch Scene from Monty Python's Holy Grail?
-   List those words in alphabetical order
-   List all of the Tesla models, along with their year of introduction, and how many of each model have been sold.

### Help for Creating Your Resume - CS320

-   What is HTTP?
-   What is HTML?
-   What is CSS?
-   Tell me about a Div in HTML?
-   How about a Span?
-	How do I create a Table?
-   Show me how to embed a picture?
-   How about a video?
-	How about borders, line widths, fonts?
-	How do I make a Div float left under the main content when the frame narrows?

### Alternates to AI

Large language models such as ChatGPT should not be taken lightly. It is still unknown what potential side effects can occur from using AI. As such, there are alternate instructions for a student wishing to complete the lab and assignment without the use of ChatGPT. See the instructor to discuss alternate instructions. However, using these alternate instructions does not alleviate the student from learning about ChatGPT and its potential functionality in the industry.

Submitting
==========

When you are done, submit the lab to the Marmoset server using the method below.


From a web browser
------------------

Save your conversation document in PDF form as **CS320_Lab00.pdf**.

Upload your PDF to the **Lab00** project under **CS320, Spring 2024** on the Marmoset server. The Marmoset server URL is:

> [https://cs.ycp.edu/marmoset/](https://cs.ycp.edu/marmoset/)